"There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it." - 1 Corinthians 10:13, KJV
"And no marvel; for even Satan fashioneth himself into an angel of light. It is no great thing therefore if his ministers also fashion themselves as ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works." - 2 Corinthians 11:14-15, RV
"Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God." - Hebrews 12:1-2, KJV
"But a man is to be Brave, not on compulsion, but from a sense of honour." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book III, chapter XI
"Wherefore thou art without excuse, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest dost practise the same things." - Romans 2:1, RV
"How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?" - Romans 6:2, KJV
"For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness. What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death." - Romans 6:20-21, KJV
"For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit." - Romans 8:5, WEB
"Now that no man is justified by the law before God is evident..." - Galations 3:11, WEB
"[T]here is but a certain limit of time appointed unto thee, which if thou shalt not make use of to calm and allay the many distempers of thy soul, it will pass away and thou with it, and never after return." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, book II
"Whatsoever thou dost affect, whatsoever thou dost project, so do, and so project all, as one who, for aught thou knowest, may at this very present depart out of this life." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, book II
"As for life therefore, and death, honour and dishonour, labour and pleasure, riches and poverty, all these things happen unto men indeed, both good and bad, equally; but as things which of themselves are neither good nor bad" - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, book II
"Never esteem of anything as profitable, which shall ever constrain thee either to break thy faith, or to lose thy modesty; to hate any man, to suspect, to curse, to dissemble, to lust after anything, that requireth the secret of walls or veils." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, book III
"How happy is man in this his power that hath been granted unto him: that he needs not do anything but what God shall approve, and that he may embrace contentedly, whatsoever God doth send unto him? " - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, book XII
"There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare." - Sun Tzu, The Art of War, chapter II
"Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory." - Sun Tzu, The Art of War, chapter IV
"He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity." - Ecclesiastes 5:10, KJV
"For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. (For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;) Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ" - 2 Corinthians 10:3-5, KJV
"Mingled is love \ when a man can speak \ To another all his thought; \ Nought is so bad \ as false to be, \ No friend speaks only fair." - anonymous, Havamal, stanza 124
"Seek never to win \ the wife of another, \ Or long for her secret love." - anonymous, Havamal, stanza 115
"A better burden \ may no man bear \ For wanderings wide than wisdom; \ It is better than wealth \ on unknown ways, \ And in grief a refuge it gives." - anonymous, Havamal, stanza 10
"A better burden \ may no man bear \ For wanderings wide than wisdom; \ Worse food for the journey \ he brings not afield \ Than an over-drinking of ale." - anonymous, Havamal, stanza 11
"If evil thou knowest, \ as evil proclaim it, \ And make no friendship with foes." - anonymous, Havamal, stanza 127
"None so good is found \ that faults he has not, \ Nor so wicked that nought he is worth." - anonymous, Havamal, stanza 133
"Curse not thy guest, \ nor show him thy gate, \ Deal well with a man in want." - anonymous, Havamal, stanza 135
"We are right then in saying, that these virtues are formed in a man by his doing the actions; but no one, if he should leave them undone, would be even in the way to become a good man." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book II, chapter III
"In respect of anger: Here too there is excess, defect, and a mean state; but since they may be said to have really no proper names, as we call the virtuous character Meek, we will call the mean state Meekness, and of the extremes, let the man who is excessive be denominated Passionate, and the faulty state Passionateness, and him who is deficient Angerless, and the defect Angerlessness." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book II, chapter VII
"And so the extreme characters push away, so to speak, towards each other the man in the mean state; the brave man is called a rash man by the coward, and a coward by the rash man, and in the other cases accordingly." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book II, chapter VIII
"It is truly absurd for a man to attribute his actions to external things instead of to his own capacity for being easily caught by them;[1] or, again, to ascribe the honourable to himself, and the base ones to pleasure." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book III, chapter I
"... [I]gnorance which affects moral choice constitutes depravity but not involuntariness: nor does any ignorance of principle (because for this men are blamed) but ignorance in particular details, wherein consists the action and wherewith it is concerned, for in these there is both compassion and allowance, because he who acts in ignorance of any of them acts in a proper sense involuntarily." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book III, chapter II
"For, it may be, men are not justified by calling those actions involuntary, which are done by reason of Anger or Lust." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book III, chapter III
"The multitude of men seem to be deceived by reason of pleasure, because though it is not really a good it impresses their minds with the notion of goodness, so they choose what is pleasant as good and avoid pain as an evil." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book III, chapter VI
"...[T]he particular acts of working form corresponding characters" - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book III, chapter VII
"Just so the unjust man, and he who has lost all self-control, might originally have helped being what they are, and so they are voluntarily what they are; but now that they are become so they no longer have the power of being otherwise." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book III, chapter VII
"[B]ut poverty, perhaps, or disease, and in fact whatever does not proceed from viciousness, nor is attributable to his own fault, a man ought not to fear" - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book III, chapter IX
"[F]orbearing to receive is easier than giving, the case of being too little freehanded with one’s own being commoner than taking that which is not one’s own." - Aristotle, Nicomachean Ethics, book IV, chapter I
"Better than one who knows what is right is one who is fond of what is right; and better than one who is fond of what is right is one who delights in what is right." - Confucius, Analects
"The nobler sort of man emphasises the good qualities in others, and does not accentuate the bad. The inferior sort does the reverse." - Confucius, Analects
"Be conscientious in speaking to your friend, but tactful in your efforts to guide him aright. If these fail, stop. Do not court a personal rebuff." - Confucius, Analects
"The nobler sort of man is accommodating but not obsequious; the inferior sort is obsequious but not accommodating." - Confucius, Analects
"The Master said, 'In the Book of Poetry are three hundred pieces, but the design of them all may be embraced in one sentence— "Having no depraved thoughts."' " - Confucius, Analects
"It is just in this that the moral worth of the character is brought out which is incomparably the highest of all, namely, that he is beneficent, not from inclination, but from duty." - Immanuel Kant, Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals
"[A]n action done from duty derives its moral worth, not from the purpose which is to be attained by it, but from the maxim by which it is determined, and therefore does not depend on the realization of the object of the action, but merely on the principle of volition by which the action has taken place" - Immanuel Kant, Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals
"I am never to act otherwise than so that I could also will that my maxim should become a universal law." - Immanuel Kant, Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals
"[E]ven though there might never yet have been a sincere friend, yet not a whit the less is pure sincerity in friendship required of every man..." - Immanuel Kant, Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals
"And when it is said unto them: Make not mischief in the earth, they say: We are peacemakers only. Are they not indeed the mischief-makers? But they perceive not." - Quran 2:11-12
"Confound not truth with falsehood, nor knowingly conceal the truth" - Quran 2:42
